At this point,
the back end of our application is fully featured.
In later lectures,
we will add some testing and make some performance adjustments.
But as faras features go,
we have everything that we need.
The last bits that we want to add now,
however,
are about logging,
so we're not gonna be adding more services or user facing background workers.
But we will be adding the ability for an admin like us to see and use logs a little bit
easier in this lecture.
We're gonna go over logging to physical files on the file system,
and in the next lecture,
we're going to talk more about log in to the console in more advanced ways.
So returning to the workers file,
let's log out any time a check is performed.
And let's just log what happened.
The outcome of the check the new state of the U.
R L,
and whether or not an alert is warranted before we log it to a file,
let's just log it to the council here so we can see what's coming.
So we'll law check outcome state an alert warranted.
I'm going to start up the app again and remember the checks won't run immediately when the
APP starts,
and then again a minute later so we can see that these 1st 2 logs for the two existing
checks have come through.
There is no air.
The response code that this one got was 302 The response code for this one was 301 and they
were both up.
They had both previously been up,
and so no alert was needed in either case.
Now it is going to kill that and let's make the workers run a little bit quicker so that we
can see logs coming in a little bit faster.
I'm gonna change this to run every five seconds instead of 60 and we'll see these two lines
appear over and over again once every five seconds.
Okay,
now that that's ran a few times,
we can kill that.
What you just saw happen in the console is basically the same thing that we are going to
want to do.
But we want to send it to actual log files and then later on,
we're going to write a worker that will rotate the log files and compress them to make room
on the file system and make it easier to manage the logs and look for longs at a past date
.
But for now,
let's just focus on actually writing these kind of logs to a log file.
So back up to where we console locked out,
actually want to add a couple more parameters to what needs to be loved.
First,
I want to say log the outcome of the check.
I want to love the original check data,
Then the Czech outcome,
the state,
whether or not alert,
was warranted,
and then the time of the check time of check should equal date now.
And so I'm actually going to pull the time of check into a variable and then use that
variable anywhere.
We had needed date now,
So I'm gonna move this stuff above here and use time of check as variable for last checked
.
So we're still logging this the console and the next thing we'll do is change that.
But for now,
that's running again.
See all that data coming through?
You can see that it's a much larger alert to go to the console,
and this is one of the reasons that we want to send it to an actual mark file.
Is this much data coming to the console is just very hard to grok for the user.
So let's kill that.
And now,
rather than calling console dot log let's call workers dot log workers don't log doesn't
exist yet.
So now we can go about writing this function which takes in all these parameters and then
rights it to a file.
So I'm going to go down here just above where we put in the loop and actually start writing
this function when you say workers don't log equals a function that takes in all these
parameters.
And since this is really just a private function only used here,
we don't need to do much sanity checking.
So let's say that we want to form the log data and then we'll go about actually writing it
.
We're gonna see the log data is an object.
Our logs,
they're going to be written as Jason.
So we're just gonna form these big JavaScript objects were gonna say that check equals
original check data outcome vehicles check out.
Come state equal.
State alert equals whether or not an alert was warranted and time because the time of now
that we have log data object that's converted onto a string so that we can do something
with it.
And now let's figure out what to call the log file that we're ready to.
So there's a lots of different ways to write walk files.
You can write all your logs to the same file.
Or you could write different logs for different users or different logs for different
checks.
We're going to decide,
Teoh,
right,
different logs for different checks.
And then later on,
we'll go about splitting those logs up by time.
Step So there will be one log.
That is about this check from this time to this time and another log that is about that
same check from another time to another time.
So for now,
all we need to worry about is writing this log to a log file whose name is the same as the
check I D.
So we're gonna say that the log file name is original Check data that i d.
Now that we know which file we want to write to,
and we have the string that we want to write,
all we need to do is upend the log string to the file we want to write to.
For that,
we're going to call the function and a library that doesn't exist yet.
So we're gonna call logs append,
pass it the log file name,
pass it the log string,
and then it'll pass us back and error.
We're going to say if there's no air and we'll log out to the console,
that logging to file succeeded.
And if there is an air,
we're gonna log out to the console that logging to file failed.
Now,
obviously,
we're going to need to create to this log library and the A pen function that lives inside
of it.
But before we do,
let's go ahead and move up and require it where we know what's going toe live.
So we're going to say of our logs equals require dot,
slash logs.
Now we can go about actually creating that file.
So now logs dot Js lives inside lip border,
which is the same quarter that this workers file lives in.
So now let's go about actually rating this logs append function in that new file that we
just created.
So I'm gonna open it up and say that this is a library for storing and rotating blog's.
This is going to have a few dependencies that will go into in more detail later.
But for now to snow,
we need FS,
which is the file system.
We're going to need path which we've used before,
and we're gonna need a library we haven't mentioned yet called Z lib,
which is all about compressing and decompressing files.
That's the lib equals require.
We're going to want to store this library inside of a container.
So we say container for the module,
he's gonna call it live and down at the bottom.
We are going to export it now.
Where we going to rate?
These logs were going to do something similar to what we did in data where we in the root
directory created a dot data folder but instead is going to be a dot logs for So let's go
ahead and create that.
We're gonna say week directory dot logs And now we have a place for all these logs to go.
But just like we did for the data library here,
we need to establish at the top of our file the base directory that we're going to be
working in.
And whereas for data it was a dot data folder for logs,
it's going to be looks now.
We can go ahead and start writing that upend function,
so this function will be upend a strength to a file.
Create the file if it does not exist.
River If we're doing with check X y Z,
we're going to be attempting to write that Jason string to a file called X Y C.
If that file does not exist yet because it's the first time we've written it or because
later on we might have rotated that log out or compress the old one,
we want to go ahead and create the file before a pending anything to it.
So live append.
It's going to be a function that takes in a file name the string that should be appended
and a call back.
So we're going to do similar things to what we did in the data file.
We are going to start by opening the file for a pending.
For that,
we're going to use F esta open call the base directory.
I had the file name add dot log because we might as well call it dot log.
Since they are log files,
we're going to use the A switch because we're opening it for a pending and we want it to be
created.
If it does not exist and they will pass back in air and a file descriptor,
if there is not an air and there is a file descriptor we want to continue,
Otherwise we want to call back the error.
Could not open file for a pending,
but if everything was fine,
we want to append to the file and close it.
So we will say F s that attend file,
which is a built in function in that module.
We want to pass it to file descriptor and then the string.
And then we're actually going to add on slash end,
which is a new line character,
because we're going to be adding on Jason Jason one line at a time.
And we might as well add a new line character after each Jason string that we add just to
make it easier to parse both visually and programmatically later on,
that's gonna pass us back in air.
So we will say if there is not an error,
that the impending work fine.
And we want to go ahead and close the file.
But if pending the file hit in error do we want to call back here a pending to file
Everything was fine,
as I mentioned.
Will call fs dot clothes,
pass a file descriptor.
They'll pass us back an air.
If there is no air,
we'll call back false because we use an air back.
But if there was an error,
we'll call back air closing file that waas being upended.
Okay,
so that's the entire pen function.
So let's go ahead and try to run the APP again,
see if these new files gets created in this directory.
And if the data gets appended to it started up.
We got logging to file succeeded and no alert needed,
which is the old logging that we used to do again.
Five seconds later,
we got longing to file succeeded,
and it seems to be working fine.
So if he opened up these files,
we should see three in each of them and we do.
Each line has a different time stamp and they're all on new lines.
But besides that,
they are pretty much all the same because none of this information was changing.
All the checks said that the state was up and there was no need to alert the user,
so alert was always false.
All right,
so the logging is working fine.
But as you can imagine,
even though this is only going to be running once every minute instead of once every five
minutes,
these log files will get pretty big pretty quickly.
And so once a day,
we want to take a lot of files that have gotten full with data over the last day and use
the Z Lib library to compress them.
Make them a small is possible.
They should be able to make them very small because,
as you can see,
there are a lot of repetitive data,
so we want to make them very small,
then allow the app to add today's logs.
Today's Jason in a fresh,
empty file instead of a pending to a larger and larger file,
and after we compress the old logs,
we want to save them with a time stamp in their name,
so that if we want to look up the logs from that say January 1st,
All we have to do is figure out what the file name would be for January 1st and decompress
that file,
then read the contents within it.
All of that will make more sense as we go through this.
For now,
I'm just going to close these logs and let's go back to the Workers Tab,
where we're going to add a new loop to the initialization script,
telling the workers to go about compressing and modifying the laws.
What we call rotate him the logs once every 24 hours.
Right before you do that,
I'm just going to change this back to Ron wants a minute instead of what's every five
seconds clear out the terminal.
Now let's add those workers.
The moment the APP starts up,
we want to call one worker called Rotate Logs,
and that is going to compress all the logs immediately so that an act that is just starting
up will have all fresh logs for its services to write to.
We're just gonna call that workers dot rotate logs the other function that we want to call
in the initialization script.
I will call the compression loop so logs will be compressed made around for that,
we're gonna call workers dot log rotation that log rotation loop going to work much in the
way the workers dot loop does.
Whereas it is just going to call rotate logs once every 24 hours so we can go ahead and
write that it is a very small function.
It is a timer to execute the log rotation process once per day.
So we're going to say workers log rotation loop is a function and I'm in a copy working
start loop excrete to do the same thing.
We're gonna set an interval.
But instead of calling workers don't gather all checks,
we're gonna call workers duck,
rotate logs and instead of calling it once a minute,
we're gonna call it once a day.
So 1000 most seconds in a second,
60 seconds in a minute,
60 minutes in an hour,
24 hours in a day.
So now,
once per day,
this will get cold.
So now we need to go about righting what it's calling rate.
The rotate logs function.
So just above it,
I'm going to write that function which will be to rotate,
make a compress,
the log files workers rotate logs is in function doesn't take any parameters.
What is going to do is start by listing all the non compressed log files that are sitting
in the dark logs for the dot log.
Supporter as time goes on is going to be full of compressed files that are already stepped
up and un compressed files that need to be compressed.
So the first thing we need to do is list everything that needs to be compressed.
So we're going to start calling a bunch of functions that don't exist yet.
Then we're going to go in and actually write those functions so that first function that
doesn't exist is called logs dot list.
We're gonna pass it false,
because when we write it,
we're gonna allow the user whoever's calling this function to pass it a Boolean indicating
whether or not it should include compressed files in its list that it gives out of all the
logs in the forger.
If you say long stout list true,
then it will give you all of the logs,
including the compressed ones.
But we want Teoh just have the non compress one,
so we're gonna pass it false so longs dot list false,
and it's going to pass us back and air and a whole bunch of logs in array.
So if there is not an air and there are logs and the logs have a length,
then we'll continue on.
Otherwise,
we're going to simply log out here I could not find,
and he logs to rotate.
But if we were able to find a whole bunch of logs that need to be compressed,
then we are going to call logs for each and started looping through them.
So as we go through each one,
we want to compress the data to a different file,
and then we'll go about actually emptying out or truncating that log file that we're
working with.
So we want to say that the log I D that we are getting that's coming from this log name is
going to be the same as the log name,
except we need to replace dot log with an empty string,
just like we had to strip Jason off of the files that we were storing in the data folder.
We need to strip dot log off of the logs that were storing in the dot logs quarter.
So the i d is the same file name without doubt.
Log.
So the new file i d.
The new compressed file that we're going to create is going to be the same log I d.
But we're going to add on a dash and in the current time stamp.
So it will be very easy to identify which logs are compressed in which aren't the UN
compressed logs that just getting filled up with today's data are going to be just an i.
D.
And the compressed logs that reference data from yesterday or some day in the past are
going to be an I D.
And then a dash and then a date timestamp representing the moment in time that that log was
compressed.
So now we have the new file i d.
We can call another function that doesn't exist yet,
which is logs compress.
We want to tell it to compress log I d.
So we're identifying the log and we want to move everything to new file I D.
And we want to get back in air.
If there is no air will continue.
But if there is an air than we want Teoh log out air compressing one of the log files and
we might have sold log out whatever that error Waas.
But if there is no air,
then we want to go about truncating the log and by truncating log,
I mean emptying everything out of the original log file that we are rotating through that
came to us as log name.
So in other words,
emptying out this log file after we've gone about taking the contents out of it and moving
the contents to a new compressed file.
So we're gonna truncate the log,
which means we'll call it logs dot truncate,
which also doesn't exist yet.
Pass it a log,
I d and expect back an error.
If there is no error,
we're going to log out success truncating log file.
And if there is an air,
we're going toe long out here truncating log file.
So that's everything that we need to do in the workers file.
But as you can see,
we've gotta work cut out for us.
We need these new functions were in in this new logs library.
So let's go about doing that.
We might as well start with logs dot list.
As I mentioned,
this function is going to list all of the logs and optionally include the compressed bugs,
and it's going to optionally include them via that 1,000,000,000.
So live that list is a function that takes in a boolean of whether or not they should
include compressed logs in the list and a call back.
We're going to use the file system,
function re adder or however you say it.
We're gonna call the base directory and they're gonna passes back and air and data.
We're going to say If there is no air and there is data and that data array has a length,
then we'll continue.
Otherwise,
we're just going to call back the air and the data to whoever called us If everything was
fine,
we want to create an empty array that will eventually hold all the trimmed file names,
the file names without the dot log on them.
So we're going to say data for each.
It's going to be a function that gives us file name.
And now the strings that we add to the array would depend on whether or not this string
represents and it compressed log and whether or not.
We're supposed to include the compressed logs.
So the first bit of data will be just for the dot log files.
So add the dot log files,
which we always want to do.
So we want to say that if the file name index of dot log is greater,
the negative one.
So in other words,
if the file name includes the string dot log,
then we can go ahead and push that name onto the array after we strip off dot log So trump
file names push final name replace dot log with an empty string.
Now we want to optionally add on the compressed files,
which for our case,
are gonna be called dot gc dot be 64.
That is because we're doing Z lib compression,
which normally makes things and in dot gz But then we are based 64 encoding them so that we
can read them easily later.
So we're adding on the dot B 64 extension as well.
So we're saying we want to add on the dot gz files to this array,
so we're gonna say if final name index of dot gc dot B 64 is greater than negative one and
the include compressed logs.
1,000,000,000 is true then,
and only then do we want to add them to the rays well after we trim off their extension.
So trim file names,
push file name,
replace Dutch Easy.
Don't be 64 with an empty string.
Lastly,
after we've gone through this for each loop synchronously,
we want to call back to the requester no error and then the array of trimmed found names.
So that list function should be working.
We can move on to the next thing that we need it,
which is live dot compress.
And in order for us to easily test out whether compresses working,
we should also write lab dot decompress afterwards.
So lived a compress is going to compress the contents of one dot log file into a dot gz dot
b 64 file within the same directory.
So it is going to be a function,
but as we know takes a log i d a new file i d and a call back.
We need to first to find the source file,
So that's going to be log I d dot log and the destination file that this compressed data
needs to go to a destination.
File equals new file.
I d don't jeezy dot b 64 Now we want to read the source for that.
We're going to use FS read file,
pass it in the base directory,
plus the source file name.
We want to read it in with utf a encoding.
And they're gonna pass us back an error and the string contents of that file,
which we're gonna call input string if there is no air and there is an input strength will
continue to try to compress that inputs drink.
Otherwise,
we're just gonna call back the air that we got.
Now we want to compress the data using she's it.
Jesus comes with the Z Lib library,
and now we're going to compress that string into data through that library.
So we're gonna say z lib dot Jeez,
it and then pass it.
Input string.
If we're gonna expect back an air and a buffer,
the buffer is going to contain the compressed data.
If there's no air and there was a buffer will continue.
Otherwise,
we'll call back that air that we got to the requester that everything was fine then we want
to send the data that new compressed data to the destination file.
So we want to f s got open the destination file.
That's going to be lived based directory plus destination file.
We're going to open it with the WFP's flag for writing and expect back an air and a file
descriptor if there is no air and there is a file descriptor will continue to right to the
destination file.
Otherwise,
we're going to call that the air that we get for writing to the destination file.
We're going to use FS right file.
We're gonna pass it the file descriptor,
pass it the buffer.
But then we are going to call built in function on this buffer called to String,
and we want to pass it the parameter base 64 so it nodes to make a base 64 encoded straight
.
So,
in other words,
this buffer is going to become a base.
64 included string so that it could be written to a file and that right file function is
gonna pass us back an error.
If there's nine air,
we should close the destination file.
Otherwise,
we should call back the air for closing the destination file were calling F s clothes with
the five of Scripture.
And again,
if there's no air,
we want to call back false.
And if there is an air,
we want to call it back.
All right,
so that is how you compress a file using G zip,
which is part of ze lib,
and how you base 64 encode the string so that you can write it to a text file.
So now that you have that kind of data compressed into a file,
at some point,
you'll likely need to decompress it.
So let's just write that function.
Even though we don't have plans to use it right now,
it will be useful later.
So we want to decompress the contents of a dot gz dot B 64 file into a string variable.
So live decompress.
It's going to be a function that takes in a file I t.
And a call back.
We're gonna construct the file name as file I t plus dot pz dot b 64 And now we're gonna
call fs read file,
pass it the base directory,
plus the file name.
Tell it,
Teoh utf eight What we're reading and expect back air and the string.
If there is no air and a string,
we're gonna continue.
Otherwise we'll call back whatever that air Waas If there was a string,
we need to decompress the data.
So we're going to create a buffer out of this base 64 encoded strength.
So we're really doing the reverse steps that we did before before we started with a string
,
created a Jesus buffer out of it and then sent that buffer to base 64 encoded strength.
Now we're starting with the base 64 encoded string were decompressing it into a buffer.
And then we're going from a buffer unzipping that buffer into a plane string.
So first need to decompress the data far input,
buffer equals and new buffer from this string which we know is based 64.
So we're saying create a new buffer out of these beginnings.
Now we want to call a Z lib unzip,
which is the opposite of the zip that we used that Jesus z lib dot unzip Pass it input
buffer and we're gonna expect out an air and an output buffer.
There is no air and there is an output buffer.
We'll continue otherwise we'll call back whatever that air waas.
But if we got the output buffer,
then we just want to call back in general.
Which means we need to create a string out of this buffer.
So we're gonna call straying equals output buffer two strings without any parameters.
Now we have a strain to call back,
so we can Colback no air plus the string.
So that's our decompression function,
and we'll go about testing that later on.
Lastly,
one of the functions that we called in workers was Libdeh truncate or logs dot truncate.
So we need to have a function for truncating a lot file.
So live truncate equals function.
It takes in a log i d and a callback and it's just going to call file system truncate pass
into base directory,
plus the log I d plus Dr Log Tell it to truncated all the way and expect back an air.
If there is no air,
we'll call back false.
And if there is an error,
we'll call it back.
So that is our whole logs library.
Now we can start our workers back up and see if this log rotation and compression is
working properly,
and now we can actually just start it up.
It's going to call rotate logs immediately,
which should do everything we need.
We don't need to worry about the log rotation Luke firing again because it's not going to
happen again for 24 hours.
Let's start up.
Looks like we have an air and it looks like this happened because I included these
parameters incorrectly.
I wasn't supposed to separate this with the plus.
I'm supposed to separate that with a comma.
So let's kill that and try it again.
Okay,
Looks like locking to the final succeeded as it was before.
And we have to success truncating the log files messages logged out.
I'm gonna kill that.
And let's look at what's actually living in this part.
The file system.
Now we have our original logs,
which now just have one line each,
and you can see that is because we just log to the files and we just looked at those files
after the Trump Cajun happened.
But the truncation happened,
which means we have all this base 64 encoded data inside of these dot gz dot be 64 files.
So compression is happening.
And after the compression happens and wipes out those files,
those Longs air still getting filled up as normal.
So logging and what we call log rotation is working fine.
That is how you log to the file system in a later lecture and a future section.
We will actually use that decompression function,
but for now,
we don't really need it.
And we'll look into that in more detail when we actually need to decompress some logs.
But for now,
everything is working fine and so we can move on to the next lecture,
which is about more logging but is about long to the console,
as opposed to log files.